# PiDP-8-Project

The only complete files here are `blink.pal` and `vc8e-2048.pde`; the former program alternates between two light patterns on the accumulator of the PiDP-8, and the latter is a modification of Kyle Owen's [Processing program](https://github.com/user/repo/blob/branch/other_file.md) to emulate the VC8E (the original screen used for playing Spacewar).

The `test.pal` and `ebb-and-flow.pal` files were used in our attempt to create a neater light pattern on the PiDP-8. The idea was to make a wave-like pattern, which can be seen in `pattern.txt`. `test.pal` tested the first "wave," but we then experienced memory issues on the second wave. I think that the major problem was our inability to find proper documentation on variables in PAL8. We would have liked to reuse the loops twelve times for each of the four "waves" of the program, but we couldn't figure out how to load variables/registers. Alas, we ran into paging issues with `ebb-and-flow.pal`. (Side note: without finding information regarding the registers/variables, we were unable to create a loop that would give us the desired delay between instructions in our program. As a result, our delays between instructions on our PAL8 programs were roughly 5 seconds each.)

Another difficulty was simply becoming familiar with the environment. We became proficient with the `EDIT` and `CREATE` commands, which were some of the earliest text-editing programs used for OS/8. Additionally, after we loaded and ran a program using the terminal, we were unable to figure out how to continue using the terminal unless we stopped the pidp8i simulator and restarted it. It made editing programs more difficult than we would have liked.

All in all, we really enjoyed learning about the PDP-8 and interacting with the computer manually. (Always yield to the hands-on imperative!) I didn't stumble across this [PDP-8 Programming Handbook](https://cs.carleton.edu/faculty/jondich/documents/IntroToProgramming1969.pdf) until the night before the presentation day, but it proved very helpful with debugging and learning. We'll be sure to return back to this for future hacks, and hopefully to bring `ebb-and-flow.pal` to life.
